docs: HIP-756 Design Document (#16819)
hashgraph/hedera-services: hedera-node/docs/design/services/smart-contract-service/scheduled-create-token-system-contract.md

|------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------|------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `0xe780c5d3`           | `getScheduledFungibleTokenCreateTransaction(address scheduleAddress)`                 | `function getScheduledFungibleTokenCreateTransaction(address scheduleAddress) returns (int64 responseCode, FungibleTokenInfo memory tokenInfo)`       | ScheduleGetInfo | Retrieve information for the scheduled token create              |
| `0x14749042`           | `getScheduledNonFungibleTokenCreateTransaction(address scheduleAddress)`              | `function getScheduledNonFungibleTokenCreateTransaction(address scheduleAddress) returns (int64 responseCode, NonFungibleTokenInfo memory tokenInfo)` | ScheduleGetInfo | Retrieve information for the scheduled nft create                |

> | `0xca829811`           | `scheduleNative(address systemContractAddress, bytes callData, address payerAddress)` | `function scheduleNative(address systemContractAddress, bytes callData, address payerAddress) returns (int64 responseCode, address scheduleAddress)`  | ScheduleCreate  | Schedule a token create or update as determined by the call data |

Reviewer: Hapi Operation should probably be ScheduleCreate/ScheduleUpdate

Author: We don't support ScheduleUpdate for now

### System Contract Module

- `ScheduleNativeTranslator` - This class will be responsible for handling the `scheduleCreateFungibleToken`, `scheduleCreateFungibleTokenWithCustomFees`, `scheduleCreateNonFungibleToken`, `scheduleCreateNonFungibleTokenWithCustomFees`, `scheduleUpdateTokenInfo` and selectors and dispatching them to the Schedule Service.
- `ScheduleNativeCall` - This class provides methods and constants for decoding the given `HssCallAttempt` into the appropriate `TransactionBody` by using the `asSchedulableDispatchIn` method of the `Call` interfaced described below.

> - `GetScheduledInfoTranslator` - This class will be responsible for handling the `getScheduledFungibleTokenCreateTransaction`, `getScheduledNonFungibleTokenCreateTransaction` and `getScheduledTokenAddress` selectors and dispatching them to the Schedule Service.

Reviewer: remove `getScheduleTokenAddress`?

Author: Will do

Call data that does not match these function definitions will result in a `SCHEDULED_TRANSACTION_NOT_IN_WHITELIST` response code.

### New method in Call Interface

The current `Call` interface will be extended to include a new method `asSchedulableDispatchIn` that will be used to convert the `Call` object into a `TransactionBody` object.
Existing functions that produce a `TransactionBody` object will be updated to use this new method.

```
/**
* Encapsulates a call to the HTS system contract.
*/
public interface Call {
...
  /**
  * @param frame the message frame
    * @return the native TransactionBody implied by this call
    */
      @NonNull
      default TransactionBody asSchedulableDispatchIn(MessageFrame frame) {
          throw new UnsupportedOperationException("Needs scheduleNative() support");
      }
    }
```

### Gas Costs

The gas costs will consist of the price for the call to the Schedule Service plus the intrinsic gas cost plus mark-up.
The calling contract should then have the balance to cover the cost of the Native transaction.

### Feature Flags

In order to gate the newly introduced system contract calls, we will reuse the following feature flag:

> - `contracts.systemContract.scheduleService.enabled` - to enable the `scheduleNative` function.

Reviewer: I believe I updated this flag to be `contracts.systemContract.scheduleService.scheduleNative.enabled`

Author: Will update

# Scheduled Token Create System Contract

## Purpose

[HIP-755](https://hips.hedera.com/hip/hip-755) defines a new system contract that allows accounts and contracts to interact with the schedule service system contract enabling the signing of scheduled transactions.

> [HIP-756](https://hips.hedera.com/hip/hip-756) to define new system contract functions to schedule token creation in order for a smart contract to be able to designate accounts for autoRenew and/or treasury roles.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[HIP-756](https://hips.hedera.com/hip/hip-756) defines new system contract functions to schedule token creation and updates in order for a smart contract to be able to designate accounts for autoRenew and/or treasury roles.
```

Author: Done

This document will define the architecture and implementation of this functionality.

## Goals

- Provide the users with the ability to schedule token creation and updates.

> - Provide the ability to retrieve the information about a scheduled creation/update.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Provide the ability to retrieve the information about a scheduled token creation/update.
```

Author: Done

- ~~Provide the ability to retrieve the newly created token address via scheduled transaction.~~

## Non Goals

- The implementation of the Schedule Service logic as it is already done
- The implementation of the HSSSystemContract infrastructure wiring as it is already done with HIP-755
- The modification of existing Scheduled Transactions like updating or deleting is out of scope for this HIP.
- The implementation of a more generic `scheduleContractCall` to enable cron like functionality for calling contract functions.
While this functionality will not be explicitly designed in this document, care will be taken to ensure that the design is extensible to support this in the future.
- Provide the ability to retrieve the newly created token address via scheduled transaction.  

## Architecture and Implementation

The architecture for the scheduled creations follows the existing framework defined for handling all calls to the HederaScheduleService system contract in the modularization services and is described in more detail in the section below.

> One difference is that instead of creating multiple functions for each type of token creation, we will have a single function called `scheduleNative` that will be able to handle all types of token creations.  This function will

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One difference is that instead of creating multiple functions for each type of HTS system contract functions, we will have a single function called `scheduleNative` that will be able to handle all types of HTS functions, starting with token creation and updates.  This function will
```

Author: Done

| `0xe780c5d3`           | `getScheduledFungibleTokenCreateTransaction(address scheduleAddress)`                 | `function getScheduledFungibleTokenCreateTransaction(address scheduleAddress) returns (int64 responseCode, FungibleTokenInfo memory tokenInfo)`       | ScheduleGetInfo | Retrieve information for the scheduled token create              |
| `0x14749042`           | `getScheduledNonFungibleTokenCreateTransaction(address scheduleAddress)`              | `function getScheduledNonFungibleTokenCreateTransaction(address scheduleAddress) returns (int64 responseCode, NonFungibleTokenInfo memory tokenInfo)` | ScheduleGetInfo | Retrieve information for the scheduled nft create                |
| `0xca829811`           | `scheduleNative(address systemContractAddress, bytes callData, address payerAddress)` | `function scheduleNative(address systemContractAddress, bytes callData, address payerAddress) returns (int64 responseCode, address scheduleAddress)`  | ScheduleCreate  | Schedule a token create or update as determined by the call data |

> | `0x4742876e`           | `scheduleCreateFungibleToken(HederaToken memory token,int64 initialTotalSupply, int32 decimals)`                                                                                    | `function scheduleCreateFungibleToken((string,string,address,string,bool,int64,bool,(uint256,(bool,address,bytes,bytes,address))[],(int64,address,int64)),int64,int32) returns (int64 responseCode, address scheduleAddress)`                                                                                            | ScheduleCreate  | Schedule a token creation                                             |

Reviewer 2: Remove the `scheduleCreateFungibleToken` variations

`createNonFungibleToken(HederaToken memory token)`
`createNonFungibleTokenWithCustomFees(HederaToken memory token, FixedFee[] memory fixedFees, RoyaltyFee[] memory royaltyFees)`
`updateTokenInfo(address token, HederaToken memory tokenInfo)`

Call data that does not match these function definitions will result in a `SCHEDULED_TRANSACTION_NOT_IN_WHITELIST` response code.

### New method in Call Interface
The current `Call` interface will be extended to include a new method `asDispatchIn` that will be used to convert the `Call` object into a `TransactionBody` object.
Existing functions that produce a `TransactionBody` object will be updated to use this new method.

  ```
  /**
  * Encapsulates a call to the HTS system contract.
  */
  public interface Call {
  ...
    /**
    * @param frame the message frame
      * @return the native TransactionBody implied by this call
      */
        @NonNull
        default TransactionBody asDispatchIn(MessageFrame frame) {
            throw new UnsupportedOperationException("Needs scheduleNative() support");
        }
      }
  ```

> ### Gas Costs

Reviewer 2: We should add an events section.

We should define an events that 
- highlight schedule creation and details e.g. event ScheduleNativeEvent(address systemContractAddress, string selectHex, address payerAddress, address scheduleAddress)
- highlights during schedule execution if the payer is a contract the transfer of the fee payment. e.g. event ScheduleExecutionEvent(address scheduleAddress, address payerAddress, int64 cost)

A DApp should be able to subscribe and follow schedule transactions

Reviewer 2: We'll address later

> The gas costs will consist of the price for the call to the Schedule Service plus the pricing for the transaction that would be executed (for creation transactions this would include sending

Reviewer 2: I believe we no longer need to charge the price of the transaction to be scheduled as the payer noted in the schedule will do that

Author: Adjusted to match the current state

# Scheduled Token Create System Contract

## Purpose

> [HIP-755](https://hips.hedera.com/hip/hip-755) defines a new system contract that allows accounts and contracts to interact with a new schedule service system contract enabling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[HIP-755](https://hips.hedera.com/hip/hip-755) defines a new system contract that allows accounts and contracts to interact with the schedule service system contract enabling
```

Author: Updated.

[HIP-756](https://hips.hedera.com/hip/hip-756) to define new system contract functions to schedule token creation in order for a smart contract to be able to designate another account for autoRenew and/or treasury.
This document will define the architecture and implementation of this functionality.

## Goals

- Provide the users with the ability to schedule token creation and updates.

> - Provide the ability to retrieve the information for the scheduled creation/update.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Provide the ability to retrieve the information about a scheduled creation/update.
```

Author: Updated.

- `ScheduledTokenCreateDecoder` - This class provides methods and constants for decoding the given `HssCallAttempt` into a `ScheduleCreateTransactionBody`.
- `GetScheduledInfoTranslator` - This class will be responsible for handling the `getScheduledFungibleTokenCreateTransaction`, `getScheduledNonFungibleTokenCreateTransaction` and `getScheduledTokenAddress` selectors and dispatching them to the Schedule Service.
- `GetScheduledTokenInfoCall` - This class provides methods and constants for decoding the `ScheduleGetInfoResponse` into a `PricedResult`.
- `GetScheduledNonFungibleTokenInfoCall` - This class provides methods and constants for decoding the `ScheduleGetInfoResponse` into a `PricedResult`.
- `GetScheduledTokenAddressCall` - This class provides methods and constants for decoding the `ScheduleGetInfoResponse` into a `PricedResult`.
- `ScheduledUpdateTokenInfoTranslator` - This class will be responsible for handling the `scheduleUpdateTokenInfo` selector and dispatching it to the Schedule Service.
- `ScheduledUpdateTokenInfoDecoder` - This class provides methods and constants for decoding the given `HssCallAttempt` into a `ScheduleCreateTransactionBody`.

### Gas Costs

> The gas costs will consist of the price for the call to the Schedule Service plus the pricing for the transaction that would be executed (for creation transactions this would include sending value with the call to cover the fees) and the intrinsic gas cost plus mark-up.

Reviewer: You might want to mention here that part of the fees must be sent via `{msg.value}` instead of gas.

Author: It is stated in the brackets but I added {msg.value} for clarity.

### Feature Flags

In order to gate the newly introduced system contract calls, we will introduce the following feature flags:

> - `systemContract.scheduleService.systemContracts.enabled` - to enable the `scheduleCreateFungibleToken`, `scheduleCreateFungibleTokenWithCustomFees`, `scheduleCreateNonFungibleToken`, `scheduleCreateNonFungibleTokenWithCustomFees` and `scheduleUpdateTokenInfo` functions.

Reviewer: There's already a `systemContract.scheduleService.enabled` to enable calls to the schedule service system contract.  Should there be another one for the state changing functions here?

Author: Changed the naming here.

## Security Implications

The newly added flows will adopt the HAPI authorization logic and the security V2 model.
The throttles for `ScheduledCreate` and `ScheduledGetInfo` will be applied to the newly added functions.

## Phased Implementation

> 1. Implement the `shceduleCreateFungibleToken`, `scheduleCreateNonFungibleToken` system contract functions.

Reviewer: typo shceduleCreateFungibleToken-> scheduleCreateFungibleToken

Author: Thanks, fixed.
